Implement support for injecting a polyfill into wpt tests. (#33338)
web-platform-tests/wpt: docs/running-tests/testing-polyfills.md

# Testing polyfills

## Preparing the polyfill

> The polyfill script injection feature currently only supports scripts which
> are immediately invoked. The script must be prepared as a single file whose
> contents will be inlined into a script tag served as part of every test page.
> 
> If your polyfill is only available as an asynchronous module with dependent
> scripts you can use a tool such as
> [microbundle](https://github.com/developit/microbundle) to repackage it as a
> single synchronous script file, e.g.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The polyfill script-injection feature currently only supports scripts which
are immediately invoked. The script must be prepared as a single file whose
contents will be inlined into a script tag served as part of every test page.

If your polyfill is only available as an asynchronous module with dependent
scripts, you can use a tool such as
[microbundle](https://github.com/developit/microbundle) to repackage it as a
single synchronous script file, e.g.:
```

```bash
microbundle -f iife -i polyfill/src/main.js -o polyfill.js
```

## Running the tests

> Follow the steps for [Running Tests from the Local System](from-local-system) to
> set up your test environment. When running tests via the browser or via the
> command line add the `--inject-script=polyfill.js` to either command, e.g.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow the steps for [Running Tests from the Local System](from-local-system) to
set up your test environment. When running tests via the browser or via the
command line, add the `--inject-script=polyfill.js` to either command, e.g.
```

Via the browser:

```bash
./wpt serve --inject-script=polyfill.js
```

Via the command line:

```bash
./wpt run --inject-script=polyfill.js [browsername] [tests]
```

## Limitations

> Polyfill scripts are injected to an inline script tag which removes itself from
> the DOM after executing. This is done by modifying the server response for
> text/html mimetype documents to insert the following before the first tag in
> the served response:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Polyfill scripts are injected to an inline script tag which removes itself from
the DOM after executing. This is done by modifying the server response for
documents with a `text/html` MIME type  to insert the following before the first tag in
the served response:
```

```html
<script>
// <-- The polyfill file is inlined here
// Remove the injected script tag from the DOM.
document.currentScript.parentNode.removeChild(document.currentScript);
```

> As such, this requires that the polyfill is self contained and executes
> synchronously in a single inline script. See [Preparing the
> polyfill](#preparing-the-polyfill) for suggestions in transforming polyfills to
> run in this way.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As such, this requires that the polyfill is self-contained and executes
synchronously in a single inline script. See [Preparing the
polyfill](#preparing-the-polyfill) for suggestions on transforming polyfills to
run in that way.
```

### Observability

> The script tag is removed from the DOM before any other script has run, and runs
> from an inline script. As such, it should not affect mutation observers on the
> same page or resource timing APIs as it is not a separate resource. The polyfill
> may be observable by a mutation observer added by a parent frame before load.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The script tag is removed from the DOM before any other script has run, and runs
from an inline script. As such, it should not affect mutation observers on the
same page or resource timing APIs, as it is not a separate resource. The polyfill
may be observable by a mutation observer added by a parent frame before load.
```

```

## Running the tests

Follow the steps for [Running Tests from the Local System](from-local-system) to
set up your test environment. When running tests via the browser or via the
command line, add the `--inject-script=polyfill.js` to either command, e.g.

Via the browser:

```bash
./wpt serve --inject-script=polyfill.js
```

Via the command line:

```bash
./wpt run --inject-script=polyfill.js [browsername] [tests]
```

## Limitations

Polyfill scripts are injected to an inline script tag which removes itself from
the DOM after executing. This is done by modifying the server response for
documents with a `text/html` MIME type  to insert the following before the first tag in
the served response:

```html
<script>
// <-- The polyfill file is inlined here
// Remove the injected script tag from the DOM.
document.currentScript.parentNode.removeChild(document.currentScript);
```

This approach has a couple limitations:
* This requires that the polyfill is self-contained and executes
synchronously in a single inline script. See [Preparing the
polyfill](#preparing-the-polyfill) for suggestions on transforming polyfills to
run in that way.

> * Does not inject into python handler responses.

Reviewer 2: That's not quite true; it doesn't inject into python handlers that write directly to the output stream. Handlers that return a fixed string should still work (see also the comment about pipes and iterable `Response.content`).

Author: Thanks, I added it verbatim as you described the exception, but i was confused since I thought the injection should work on all handlers, albeit with long timing on delayed responses.

Reviewer 2: Yes, sorry, my initial description was misleading; it's more that we can't guarantee it works for _all_ python handlers because they can do things like write directly to the output stream.

# Testing polyfills

## Preparing the polyfill

The polyfill script-injection feature currently only supports scripts which
are immediately invoked. The script must be prepared as a single file whose
contents will be inlined into a script tag served as part of every test page.

> If your polyfill is only available as an asynchronous module with dependent

Reviewer 3: Oh, I didn't consider this problem. Do you think there are polyfills which need to do async stuff to initialize themselves? If so, having those polyfills reliably be loaded before tests run would be hard, we'd need some mechanism to delay tests running, but that itself could break tests written using synchronous `test()`...

Hopefully this isn't a real-world problem?

Reviewer 3: Good! I wasn't sure if this comment was gesturing at such a problem or not.

scripts, you can use a tool such as
[microbundle](https://github.com/developit/microbundle) to repackage it as a
single synchronous script file, e.g.:

```bash
microbundle -f iife -i polyfill/src/main.js -o polyfill.js
```

## Running the tests

Follow the steps for [Running Tests from the Local System](from-local-system) to
set up your test environment. When running tests via the browser or via the
command line, add the `--inject-script=polyfill.js` to either command, e.g.

> Via the browser:

Reviewer 3: Maybe also say "Then visit http://web-platform.test:8000/ or https://web-platform.test:8443/ to run the tests in your browser."?

```bash
./wpt serve --inject-script=polyfill.js
```

Via the command line:

```bash
./wpt run --inject-script=polyfill.js [browsername] [tests]
```

## Limitations

Polyfill scripts are injected to an inline script tag which removes itself from
the DOM after executing. This is done by modifying the server response for

> documents with a `text/html` MIME type  to insert the following before the first tag in

Reviewer 3: Also mention XHTML here?

the served response:

```html
<script>
// <-- The polyfill file is inlined here
// Remove the injected script tag from the DOM.
document.currentScript.remove();
```

This approach has a couple limitations:
* This requires that the polyfill is self-contained and executes
synchronously in a single inline script. See [Preparing the
polyfill](#preparing-the-polyfill) for suggestions on transforming polyfills to
run in that way.

> * Does not inject into python handlers which write directly to the output

Reviewer 3: Does it work for .any.js tests, both in window and worker contexts? If not, can you add this to limitations?

Reviewer 3: Not supporting in workers seems fine. It should be possible, but injection would happen in a different place, and probably not worthwhile.
